---
permalink: /
title: "Academic Pages is a ready-to-fork GitHub Pages template for academic personal websites"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Who Am I?
------
I am a computer engineer specializing in Big Data and Business Intelligence. After earning my high school diploma with honors in the scientific stream, I pursued two years of intensive studies in mathematics and physics in a preparatory program for engineering schools. Following this, I attended engineering school, where I solidified my knowledge in applied mathematics and computer science. This strong foundation fueled my passion for research, driving me to explore ways to apply and integrate all these skills effectively.

Current Academic Pursuit
------
I am currently pursuing a doctoral degree in computer science, where my research is centered on optimizing the trajectories of UAVs-assisyed networks. This work is crucial for enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of data collection in various applications.

My Research Focus
------
The core objectives of my research include maximizing the data generated by IoT devices collected by drones and minimizing the Age of Information (AoI) of the data gathered. The Age of Information, a central concept in my work, is defined as the time elapsed from when the data is generated by IoT devices to when it is received by the drones. This concept is vital for ensuring the relevance and freshness of information in real-time data collection environments.

Mathematical and Technical Expertise
------
To tackle these complex challenges, I employ advanced mathematical tools, particularly non-convex optimization techniques, as the problems I formulate are generally highly non-convex. Additionally, I leverage machine learning techniques, which are now extensively used in current research, such as deep learning, reinforcement learning, and transformers. These approaches allow me to develop increasingly efficient and tailored solutions to the challenges I encounter.

Innovative Approaches
------
Furthermore, I am also interested in utilizing techniques derived from the submodular framework and geometric programming, which enables me to propose innovative and high-performance optimization methods.

A Lifelong Learner
------
My insatiable curiosity and desire to continuously learn have allowed me to develop skills that enable me to work effectively in all domains requiring the application of machine learning and applied mathematics.
